---
description: This tutorial will guide you through the installation of circom and snarkJS.
---

<!-- 
TODO add and mini explain ffjavascript
Put links to all the docs
-->

# Installing the circom ecosystem

## &#9888; Important deprecation note

The old `circom` compiler written in Javascript will be frozen, but it can still be downloaded from the [old circom repository](https://github.com/iden3/circom_old).

## Installing dependencies

You need several dependencies in your system to 
run `circom` and its associated tools.

   * The core tool is the `circom` compiler which is written in Rust.
   To have Rust available in your system, you can install `rustup`. If you’re using Linux or macOS, open a terminal and enter the following command:

<!-- 
TODO remove the command and put a link to rustup site 
-->

```shell
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 https://sh.rustup.rs -sSf | sh
```

   * We also distribute a series of npm packages so `Node.js` and some package manager like `npm` or `yarn` should be available in your system. Recent versions of `Node.js` include big integer support and web assembly compilers that help run code faster, so to get a better performance, install version 10 or higher.

## Installing circom

`circom` is a compiler written in Rust for compiling circuits written in the `circom` language.
The compiler outputs the representation of the circuit as constraints and everything needed to compute different ZK proofs. 

To install from our sources, clone the `circom` repository: 

```text
git clone https://github.com/iden3/circom.git
```

Enter the directory circom_compiler and use the cargo build to compile `circom`:

```text
cargo build --release
```

The installation takes around 3 minutes to be completed.
When the command successfully finishes, it generates the `circom` binary in the directory `target/release`. 
You can install this binary as follows:

```text
cargo install --path circom
```

The previous command will install the `circom` binary in the directory 
`$HOME/.cargo/bin`. 

Now, you should be able to see all the options of the executable by using the `help` flag:

```console
circom --help

   Circom Compiler 2.0.0
   IDEN3
   Compiler for the Circom programming language

   USAGE:
      circom [FLAGS] [OPTIONS] [input]

   FLAGS:
      -h, --help       Prints help information
         --inspect    Does an additional check over the constraints produced
         --O0         No simplification is applied
      -c, --c          Compiles the circuit to c
         --json       outputs the constraints in json format
         --r1cs       outputs the constraints in r1cs format
         --sym        outputs witness in sym format
         --wasm       Compiles the circuit to wasm
         --wat        Compiles the circuit to wat
         --O1         Only applies var to var and var to constant simplification
      -V, --version    Prints version information

   OPTIONS:
         --O2 <full_simplification>    Full constraint simplification [default: full]
      -o, --output <output>             Path to the directory where the output will be written [default: .]

   ARGS:
      <input>    Path to a circuit with a main component [default: ./circuit.circom]
```

## Installing circomlib

With `circom`, it is possible to create large circuits by combining smaller generic circuits called `templates`. The `circomlib` is a library of `circom` templates that contains hundreds of circuits such as comparators, hash functions, digital signatures, binary and decimal convertors and many more. You can also create your custom templates, but before start coding, we recommend you to take a look at our already created templates.

You can install `circomlib` either as an npm package or by cloning its repository.
To install `circomlib` as a npm package:

```text
npm install circomlib -g
```

If you want to clone its repository:

```text
git clone https://github.com/iden3/circomlib.git
```
The package already contains tests for circuits available in the `circomlib`.
The package also installs the npm packages `circomlibjs` and `circom_tester` as dependencies.

<!--
TODO add also ffjavascript
-->

## The circomlibjs package

`circomlibjs` is a Javascript library that provides programs to compute the witness of several circuits of `circomlib`.
This library is used to check that the witness computed 
using the wasm or c code generated by `circom` form many circuits in the `circomlib` match the ones generated by the corresponding Javascript program in `circomlibjs`

The package includes these programs in the src directory. In the 
test directory it includes its own tests. In the tools directory it includes programs to precompute some needed parameters.

If you want to separately install `circomlibjs`, you can use the following command:

```text
npm install -g circomlibjs
```

## The circom_tester package

The `circomtester` is a npm package that provides tools for testing `circom` circtuits.

If you want to separately install `circom_tester`, you can use the following command:

```text
npm install -g circom_tester
```

## Installing snarkjs <a id="installing-the-tools"></a>

Finally, `snarkjs` is a npm package that contains code to generate and validate ZK proofs from the artifacts produced by `circom`. 

You can install `snarkjs` with the following command:

```text
npm install -g snarkjs
```
